I just bought every generation of iPad
ever so let's find out how the iPad was
originally scrapped how Apple eventually
made it but then completely ruined the
marketing of it and then how they
finally got it all together and crushed
the competition now you know what's
actually crazy about the first iPad that
this was being worked on all the way
back in 2004 and it's only while Apple
were making the iPad that they realized
hey wait a sec if we scale down this
same Tech it could become an absolutely
revolutionary phone and as soon as they
realized that they immediately suspended
iPad development and went all in on what
would end up becoming the iPhone in 2007
so if you think about it this is
actually the product that Apple
originally intended to make but it took
till 2010 for them to eventually do so
damn this thing's heavy so underneath
the iPad is an insert with a full color
quick start manuals and two Apple
stickers can't even get one of those
nowadays the 30 pin connector and a 10
wat power
[Music]
brick but there's still a massive
question mark hanging over this thing
cuz the market for tablets was frankly
abysmal in 2010 the conventional wisdom
was don't make one they never work there
weren't any mainstream Android tablets
out basically every tablet that existed
at this time was just a big chunky
ill-fated attempt at a new form of
Windows PC which was basically just a
laptop that had been sliced in half and
given a stylus even Apple had their own
Rocky history with the Newton PDA and
its poor handwriting recognition not to
mention a canceled 1983 project called
bashville which honestly it's probably
for the best that this one didn't get
made and so the question is what on
Earth did Apple do with this tablet to
actually change people's minds two
things one that the iPhone at this point
was selling extremely well so well that
it was actually driving the price of
components necessary for the iPad down
meaning that Apple managed to release
this as somehow one of the most
affordable tablets and you can tell
Steve Jobs fully knew that when he
announced that the thing was not going
to be $999 but in fact
$499 listen to that
reaction wow and two but the way you
could interact with the thing was
revolutionary like I said practically
every tablet at the time had a stylus to
mimic the mouse pointer since they were
all just Windows computers and so when
Steve Jobs announced that they managed
to scale up the iPhone's capacitive
multi-touch interface to work on their
tablet and that all you needed was a
finger I mean he probably could have
just dropped the mic and walked off at
that moment no more things this was such
a New Concept that even though it seems
so obvious now jobs actually needed to
show people how to navigate this thing
not to men this was the first time you
could just rotate on iOS and switch over
to landscape mode man using this thing
takes me back so much I remember this
being such a desirable Gadget and it's
also a sign how much care they put into
the user interface that it still holds
up today I would actually go as far as
to say that it is still beautiful and
even though the thing is not light just
by being light enough that you can hold
it in one hand intuitive to use and
Powerful with the Apple A4 chip making
it 3.4 times more powerful than the
first iPhone Apple very quickly put
tablets back on people's Radars the iPad
sold over 15 million units in total
before it was replaced which considering
the state of the tablet Market at the
time makes this a breakout success
leaving apple with no joke 85% of the
tablet market and you know what I would
actually go as far as to say that the
iPad 2 just one year later was even more
of a revelation cuz if the iPad 1 was an
Apple tablet that nailed the
fundamentals then the iPad 2 was a full
modernization of those fundamentals all
for that same $499 price
for example it was thinner but I don't
mean like phones today that might come
out 0.2 mm thinner than the last one I
mean Apple went from 13.4 mm all the way
to 8.8 in large part by replacing the
original iPads 2 fatter batteries with
three flatter batteries which also allow
them to remove some of the internal
plastic support framing it was the first
iPad with cameras a front 0.3 map and a
back 0.7 map and apple celebrated that
with the launch of photo booth on iOS
which no one was using as their main
camera but there was definitely
something fun about the fusion of the
camera with the iPad's fun bite-sized
software oh my goodness me I remember
this feeling like people's first taste
at what you now get with the practically
unlimited Snapchat filters to think
there must have been a point where all
of these Apple XX were sitting in a
boardroom testing these features God
iPad 2 had double the Ram at 512 MB and
the new dual core A5 chip ended up
making this about about 2.5 times faster
than the original iPad so let me try and
load up the same web page on both this
was like the classic comparison everyone
wanted to see at the time let's go
samsung.com 3 2 1 go what Safari cannot
open the page cuz it could not establish
a secure connection to the server what
are they trying to say about Samsung
apple.com 3 2 1 go oh oh oh oh oh well
the iPad 2 has already started to load
the page iPad one is still going still
going there you go although neither can
actually load the full page
[Music]
not to mention this is where Apple
introduced smart covers automatically
putting the iPad in sleep mode when
closed while cleaning the screen with
their microfiber cloth backing this
doesn't normally happen with SQL
products but the iPad 2 was such a huge
leap that this specifically became an
icon even more so than the original so
much so that this was still being sold
up until 2014 as the entry-level iPad
even outlasting the three and the four
but it's with this third iPad that
things start to get a little strange see
logic would dictate that if your iPad
sold well your iPad 2 sold Gang Busters
that all you have to do is to keep
making the same kinds of improvements
and to call it the iPad
free what Apple actually did was call
this new iPad the new
iPad what this will never make sense to
me how can any product ever be named the
new something cuz what do they think
happens when it's not new anymore hey
I'm here to repair my new iPad I got the
new iPad yeah well I mean I got it like
3 years ago you got the new iPad 3 years
ago yep are you sure it's not the new
old iPad well it's not you know the new
iPad but it is the new iPad if you get
me I'm not paid enough for this the key
new thing this time was after Apple saw
the reaction to the retina display on
their iPhone 4 they knew that they had
to bring that Tech to the iPads 2o and
it was an especially massive jump here
because there was already a lot of
pixels to start with this brought the
iPad up to one of the highest resolution
displays on the market full stop I mean
just look at the difference in the
Safari icon this kind of clarity would
have felt surreal in 2012 so that part
of it was great it's just basically the
rest of it like the A5 chip in the iPad
2 became the a5x in the iPad 3 which was
frankly a tiny Improvement this iPad had
the same amount of storage the same 30
pin connector I mean it looks identical
it was the first iPad technically with
support for LTE networks but even that
was a problem despite advertising the
iPad 3 as a 4G LTE device it actually
couldn't communicate with LTE networks
outside of the US due to the use of
different radio frequencies which led to
Apple being sued across multiple
countries and at the same time while
Apple was starting to get comfortable
the Android competition was starting to
heat up up until this point yes there
had been plenty of Android tablets but
they were awfully optimized they were so
buggy and laggy that they' actually
created a bad reputation for Android
tablets as just the knockoff alternative
to iPad but Google was paying very close
attention to the surprising take up of
the iPad and they invested very heavily
around this time in creating a tablet
optimized version of Android Android 3.0
honeycomb man it feels so good to talk
about this again these honeycomb tablets
were actually something I was covering
in the very early days of this Channel
and they were great you could find
something at every price point they were
way more customizable than Apple and
since they were now running a software
that was specifically designed for
tablets they actually used the large
available screen space better plus by
the time Android 4.0 rolled out Google
was also starting to fix the single main
thing holding Android back the lag which
all put together meant that Apple's
market share was tumbling fast all the
way from 85% the year of the first iPad
to 44% now and I think seeing all of
this happen Apple started to get a
little bitter they felt like they were
the ones who started this whole
smartphone and smart tablet thing and
everyone else was just copying them
particularly Samsung so it's at this
point that Apple decided to try and sue
them they claimed that Samsung copied
everything from the design to the screen
icons and even core patented features
like tap to zoom and bounceback which
allows your screen to show the surface
beneath a document the funny part of
this though is that that failed because
the High Court ruled that there was no
way any consumer would ever confuse the
two devices because Samsung was and I
quote not as cool so I mean no one
really wins here but this ended up being
just the beginning of what would become
the absolutely brutal 7-year suing and
counter doing Conquest between these two
companies and the waters only got
muddier later that same year because it
wasn't just full-size Android tablets
that were starting to become popular it
was smaller 7in ones too because
remember most phone screens at this time
were still only like 4 in now Steve Jobs
had historically hated this idea he
believed that users needed the iPad's
larger 9.7 in screen to actually do
anything useful but there was another
Apple exac Eddie Q who had been pushing
for a 7-in iPad since 2011 through
internal emails and eventually he won
job over I think it's so fascinating to
see how Apple was thinking at the time
look at this subject why I just dumped
the iPad hint Size Matters having used a
Samsung Galaxy I agree with many of the
comments below I believe there will be a
7-in market and we should do one and so
alongside the next generation iPad 4
which yes came out the same year as the
iPad 3 sorry new iPad Apple also
released the iPad mini and to be
completely honest I don't think it was
all that exciting
Apple had clearly decided that the kind
of user who'd be looking for a mini
tablet wasn't someone who would care
about The Cutting Edge so the iPad Mini
is basically just a tiny iPad 2 in terms
of specs and it came out at
$329 the cool part though is that yes
even though this was just an iPad 2 on
the inside the thinner display
technology available now and the new
unibody outer shell which had fewer
Parts meant that instead of the iPad
Mini being thicker than the iPad 2 like
you would expect given that it's shorter
and narrower it's actually thinner too
this this thing is just 7.2 mm thin much
thinner than Apple's competitors at the
time like the Google Nexus 7 and the
Amazon Fire HD the former being arguably
the first major Android tablet success
story and for the market they were
targeting this was absolutely the right
thing to focus on it meant that this
technically inferior iPad Mini actually
far outsold the iPad 4 that it released
alongside supply chain numbers suggest
Apple was restocking this thing at two
times the rate which you could sort of
see coming from the most M the iPad Mini
was first unveiled on
stage oh yeah this is also where Apple
introduced the lightning port to the
iPad which in one sense felt like the
future it could support higher transfer
speeds faster charging it was way neater
and less bulky and unlike the industry
standard micro USB at the time
completely reversible but on the other
hand users and reviewers weren't
completely jazzed that apple had gone
from one self-made proprietary cable
straight to another making the old cable
Obsolete and requiring a whole new set
of accessories oh unless you pick up the
$30 adapter but the fourth gen fullsize
iPad was still the true Flagship of 2012
and since Apple attributed a lot of the
iPad success so far to its pricing they
kept it again for the fourth year in a
row this was
$499 even though when you factor in
inflation that's actually about 20%
cheaper than the first model also a
lightning cable here and the Machine
itself which actually sparked quite a
bit of drama from people who just bought
the previous gen only to have this thing
drop 7 months later feels particularly
cruel given the naming on that iPad this
was a massive chipset upgrade from the
a5x to the a6x which made this about 2
and 1/2 times more powerful than the
iPad 3 and so about 6.5 times more
powerful than the original iPad but
apart from that and upgrading the front
camera from 0.3 to 1.2 map there is
basically nothing new it's literally
iPad 3 maybe they should have just
called this the newer iPad do you know
what they actually called it iPad 4 was
officially sold under the name iPad with
retina display even though they just
previously released the iPad with retina
display so you took the old feature from
the new iPad that's really now the old
iPad and used it to name the actually
new iPad Apple what are you doing I
think it's pretty clear that Apple
themselves were confused with what to do
with iPad you could tell that all of
this was not one person calling the
shots but a divided boardroom and if
anything reinforces that idea is the
fact that the following year instead of
a fifth generation iPad Apple instead
released yet another new category the
iPad
Air I remember seeing this thing get
announced on stage apple called this the
biggest step yet in achieving the vision
of the iPad and the crowd seemed pretty
happy about it now obviously to invent a
whole new name for this iPad it must be
a lot thinner and lighter right well yes
actually the very first iPad was 680 G
the most recent iPad 4 was 652 G the
iPad Air was just
469 and making that much of a change to
what was already a very optimized design
that requires a lot of work Apple had to
eliminate the air gap between the front
glass and the LCD panel which also at
the same time improves the picture
quality the aluminium frame was Slimmer
and these smaller size bezels they were
not just an aesthetic win but also meant
that you need less material but the
thing that made the most difference
Apple Shrunk The Battery by a good 30%
but still managed to keep the same end
battery life through a pretty massive
leap in efficiency with their new A7
chip that also happened to double the
performance of the last iPad these
numbers are really really impressive and
so even though this might look just like
an upsized iPad Mini it's the power and
The Branding of iPad Air that I think
was a big part of the thing success I
think air just makes it feel very
clearly new you felt like you were
buying something that was distinctly
impossible the last year but I think the
most interesting part of this is that
the iPad Air launched with iOS 7 the
first ever major iOS redesign and on one
hand this just feels right Apple's
lightest iPad releasing alongside their
lightest feeling software iOS 7 got rid
of all complicated 3D shapes and
replaced them with nearly shadowless
flat icons thinner text and pler
backgrounds I remember my friends
showing me the new iOS in the playground
and it distinctly feeling like the
future this flat design was what the
entire industry was moving towards at
the time but when I look back I also
can't help but feel like the original
iOS icons had so much more charm iOS 7
also does feel a bit characterless by
comparison but this is where things get
taken up another notch because in all
this time making iPads there's one thing
that Apple hadn't tried yet we've had
iPad but small we've had iPad but thin
and in 2015 Apple decided it was time
for iPad but big and not just in size
this is the absolutely ginormous iPad
Pro the Big Daddy of iPads I could not
for the life of me find one of these
Brand New by the way so this one is used
but barely now credit wear credits due I
I actually think it's pretty great that
Apple managed to at first release the
iPad at $499 and then keep hitting that
price year after year while making the
product significantly better that said
Pro is where the company makes up for
that lost ground with a starting price
of
$799 so this needs to be a massive
Improvement and well you got a new chip
the a9x which is a very healthy 1.9x
improvement over the previous a8x that
Apple used in the iPad Air 2 and an
enormous 3.4x jumper over the A7 in the
original iPad Air at the same time if
the iPad Airs are getting these super
high performance X Series chips then
what's actually Pro about the iPad Pro
well it's massive this 12.9 in display
is practically laptop sized we now have
a quad speaker setup which actually
let's do a quick demo so this is the
iPad
Air it's actually pretty good although
highly directional considering that the
speakers both face
downwards and then with the iPad Pro we
move from two to four speakers and they
are all around the
device it's not that much louder but
it's way more immersive there's a camera
upgrade to 8 mapel which I'm sure is
exactly what the pros were pining for
and the introduction of this the apple
pencil which is particularly interesting
because styluses are something that
Steve Jobs used to hate you have to get
them and put them away and you lose them
yuck plus does it not feel like the
entire existence of the iPad Pro was
something Steve Jobs would have
questioned the way that he saw the the
world was big old PC computers were like
trucks there'd always be some people who
need them but that's a minority the
majority of people will use cars and in
this analogy job saw the iPad is the car
and so in a way this iPad Pro makes a
lot of sense of course you'll have some
people who don't want a truck but do
want a more Super top Pro car but then
isn't that what the MacBook is for and
you're about to see the relationship
between these two products get more and
more murky also I find this so cool
let's say you're finding your existing
wallpaper a little bit too bland if I
pull up the Opera browser our sponsor
make me an iPad wallpaper in this style
but more colorful and Boulder see what
it spits out wa and Bam it looks like a
really nice evolution of the original
and Opera just got an update too which
now gives you a movable music player
dynamic themes which go absolutely crazy
and are fully customizable but also they
have basically fixed the hassle of
manually resizing Windows while trying
to multitask with split screen not to
mention I'm a big believer in the whole
clear room clear mind philosophy I don't
work well with mess around
me and that's a big part of why I
gravitate towards Opera because tab
Islands let you stay completely
organized and therefore very much in the
zone even if your room isn't link below
to download the Opera browser for free
now Apple did release a pro second
generation in 2017 but it was a pretty
unexciting incremental upgrade it's only
in 2018 when things got really
interesting this is the iPad Pro third
gen now at $999 and the way the Apple
Justified the second major price hike is
that this was a complete redesign and
you can tell gone are the Uber
minimalist boxes of old the new iPad was
all about color this is where Apple
decided that the kinds of people that
the pro iPad should appeal to were
creatives so they really leaned into
that you got the iPad the insert does
still have the same stuff in it as the
very first model but you can tell
they've really neatened up the
presentation of everything there's now a
USBC cable which I'm getting to and the
iPad itself which has not just a new
design but equally exciting a new matte
packaging extra crispy now I have to say
I noticed a change in apple around this
time partly I think because iPad market
share was falling hitting just 24% in
2015 because of more competition from
Samsung and Lenovo and iPhones now being
offered in larger fablet sizes and
partly because this is where Apple's
mobile a series chipsets started to get
really fast put these two things
together and this is where you notice
Apple starting to go straight for the
computer users right from the very
launch event of the iPad Pro 3 they
touted how the new a2x bionic processor
was faster than 92% of portable PCS with
overall system performance 2.8 times
faster than the Gen 1 iPad Pro making it
around 124 times faster than the very
first iPad and 421 times faster than the
first iPhone not to mention this was the
first iPad with a USBC port and the EU
didn't even need to tell them to do it
this was clearly part of the new Apple
strategy where the iPad was pitched as a
great alternative to a Windows computer
with this port allowing it to be hooked
up to a 5k resolution monitor as well as
giving it compatibility with a whole
bunch of pro accessories the storage
capacity was now up to 1 tbte this is
the first iPad with face ID so out with
the home button we got a 120 HZ
promotion display and also just
generally this is just such a nice
neatening and sharpening up of the way
the iPad looks it feels way more
intentional now but the main reason this
iPad was such big news for me a massive
reduction and just as important evening
of the bezels around the screen this
moved the iPad from tablet to Magic
sheet of glass as Apple calls it cuz you
can use it just as easily from every
angle and you know what this new Windows
laptop targeting strategy was actually
kind of working Apple's market share
started to pick up once again so they
kept doubling down on this Mantra with
the iPad Pro 4 in
20120 your next computer is not a
computer they said it came with
massively upgraded cameras a new liar
sensor which in hindsight was quite a
few years too early to be of much use to
any consumer and then the a12z bionic
chipset God Apple please stick to one
naming convention I'm begging you and it
made basically no difference to
Performance one pretty large development
was the new magic keyboard you could get
with it which also included a trackpad
you sure it's not a computer Tim but
this was especially strange since the
selfie camera which you'd be using for
calls was still on the top Edge which
made no sense since Apple were clearly
trying to push you to use the device
horizontally the biggest change though
between the last iPad and this one is
the iPad's second big software overhaul
iPad OS it's hard to believe but up
until this point every iPad was just
running the same iOS that iPhones were
running but in order to Target their
appeal to computer users Apple had to
convince them that they were getting
more than just what their phones already
could do so iPad OS launched with a
redesigned home screen that could fit
more apps long overdue but it did fix
the frankly ridiculous looking spacing
that iPads had up until this point
there's new widgets Safari would now
also automatically give you the desktop
version of sites scaled for the iPad
display and optimized for touch it
wasn't immediately a massive change but
it needed to happen eventually since the
way people use their phones is very
different to the way they use their
Tablets before long Apple's market share
was back up to 38% helped imp part
thanks to a growing middle class in
Emerging Markets who could actually
afford their premium product at which
point Apple decided you know what it's
time for another price hike
$1,099 was what the 2021 iPad Pro fifth
gen launched at and to well and truly
solidify that not a computer but
basically a computer was the direction
that Apple wanted to go in this time
around Apple actually managed to squeeze
in the M1 laptop grade chip inside of
the
iPad the entire history of iPads thus
far have been powered by a series chips
the same series of chips that go into
your phone but as the latest attempt to
try and get get away from the reputation
of the iPad just being a Netflix machine
this time they tried to focus on giving
you something different under the hood
now in a way this is all a little
arbitrary the M series chips are based
on the same architecture as the a series
chips they're just beefed up but then
that's like any other normal chip
upgrade would be anyways this iPad is
about 1.5 times faster than the last gen
but still considering that Apple's
tablets were already at this point far
more powerful than most Android
competition sticking another 50% onto
that lead is still kind of a lot that
said cool as it is to have an M1 chip
and the now up to 16 GB of RAM and 2
terab of storage this Behemoth of a
tablet can come with I don't know who
exactly was using it to its limit on an
iPad given that the base software is
still not that far off iph software to
return to the Steve Jobs analogy this
combination of Chip and product is a bit
like taking the engine of a truck and
sticking it into a car the car still
can't go above the speed limit and it's
never going to need to carry more than
five people because they won't fit
inside it anyway one thing that everyone
could appreciate though is this new
screen in one Fell Swoop it was goodbye
to the IPS LCD panels of old hello mini
LED liquid retina xdr God Apple can you
just please name things in plain English
but this basically means that instead of
one big backlight this display has
thousands of mini LEDs each with their
own backlight allowing for way higher
Peak brightness also big upgrade to the
the front-facing camera it's now a 12
megapix Ultra wide specifically to allow
for a new Apple feature called center
stage where the camera can follow you
around the room I wish the camera could
literally follow me to the correct side
of the device though the 2022 iPads were
when Apple started to Eco up their
packaging so you'll notice no outside
plastic wrap that's part of the fun gone
but you can tell they have still
obsessed over how to still give this
thing that fresh new product feeling we
got the same insert the same power brick
Oh but now the USBC cable is braided
which is an important Improvement for
durability and Tangle resistance
something the original Apple cables were
pretty notorious
for got to say they have done a pretty
slick job swapping out the plastic for
fiber while still retaining that crispy
fresh iPad feeling now aside from one
admittedly cool upgrade to the apple
pencil which now shows a Digital Shadow
above your screen when you hover this
iPad basically just existed for people
who like to say that my iPad has more
M's than yours it had an M2 Chip instead
of an M1 making it 1.2 times more
powerful but you know what as strange as
Apple's product strategy is starting to
feel with their quest to take on Windows
laptops actually just making them feel
more and more like MacBooks each year
the market share has just kept climbing
with the iPad Pro becoming Apple's
bestselling iPad and apple ending 2022
with 46% of the market the way that I
think Apple's looking at this is yes
every time we give the iPad a new Pro
feature we are slightly cannibalizing
the MacBook but at the same time we're
making the iPad less pointless and I
think the way Apple sees it the iPad has
a way better chance than the MacBook of
becoming the bestselling mainstream
computer but the Seventh Generation
really feels like the crowning Jewel of
the iPad line and it's at this point
where they've fully given the iPad
packaging the iPhone treatment it's far
thinner inside you got the iPad
surprisingly similar layout internally
it's just now you get no power brick I
do like this though a black braided
cable to match the black iPad color I've
gone for
and let's be very clear I think this
device is bordering on a miracle to be
honest it is 5.1 mm thick for starters
just look at this versus the original
iPad the difference is phenomenal and
like I said earlier I'm not as fuss when
it comes to the thickness of a phone but
on a 13-in tablet where it's the
difference between being comfortable
with two hands and being comfortable to
use with just one hand it matters it's
got a tandem OLED display display which
means that instead of just one layer of
backlit lighting this screen now has two
stacked on top of each other so the
brightness is unexpectedly High
amusingly Apple actually downgraded the
cameras and they kind of tried to hide
it as you can see cuz the ultra wide
camera was here and it just swapped it
for the lar sensor which was previously
here but they have finally fixed the
front camera by sticking it on the
landscape side not to mention the new
Apple pencil Pro which now lets you
squeeze to bring up new tools and Barrel
Roll to rotate the part of the nib
you're drawing with it really does feel
like apple bottled up two generations
worth of upgrades into one here which
reminds me it's kind of crazy how far
the iPad has come from Steve Jobs's
original Vision both in ways that would
have amazed him how the thing
practically started off as a portable
email machine and now it's a almost do
whatever you want machine but maybe also
appalled by with all this apple pencil
stuff and to be fair his original
complaint of you needing a place to put
the pencil still holds true cuz the
thing does just fall off when you rattle
it oh yeah and if you liked being able
to brag about the number two before oh
boy you must have been very excited when
they announced that these iPads somehow
got the M4 chip before the MacBooks this
is stupidly powerful for its diminutive
thickness a further 1.5x more powerful
than the previous Pro 345 times more
powerful than the iPad 1 and
astonishingly about
1,170 times more powerful than the
original iPhone but I have covered this
in a separate video in detail if you
want to see that so yeah this has been
an absolute monster of a video to put
together especially with all this new
house stuff going on like this is the
fourth first gen iPad that we've had to
buy to actually get one that works so
hope you liked it and I will catch you
in the next one oh yeah and before the
comments this is not the next gen Mr
who's the boss Studio this is a cinema
room